# MoreLINQ

LINQ to Objects is missing a few desirable features.

This project enhances LINQ to Objects with extra methods, in a manner which
keeps to the spirit of LINQ.

MoreLINQ is available for download and installation as
[NuGet packages](https://www.nuget.org/packages/morelinq/).

Documentation for the stable and beta releases can be found at
[morelinq.github.io](http://morelinq.github.io/).


## Operators

### Acquire

Ensures that a source sequence of objects are all acquired successfully. If
the acquisition of any one fails then those successfully acquired till that
point are disposed

### Assert

Asserts that all elements of a sequence meet a given condition otherwise
throws an object.

This method has 2 overloads.

### AssertCount

Asserts that a source sequence contains a given count of elements.

This method has 2 overloads.

### AtLeast

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is greater 
than or equal to the given integer.

### AtMost

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is lesser 
than or equal to the given integer.

### Batch

Batches the source sequence into sized buckets.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Cartesian

Returns the Cartesian product of two sequences by combining each element of
the first set with each in the second and applying the user=define projection
to the pair

### Concat

Returns a sequence consisting of the head element and the given tail elements.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Consume

Completely consumes the given sequence. This method uses immediate execution,
and doesn't store any data during execution

### CountBetween

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is between an 
inclusive range of minimum and maximum integers.

### CountBy

Applies a key-generating function to each element of a sequence and returns a
sequence of unique keys and their number of occurrences in the original
sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### DistinctBy

Returns all distinct elements of the given source, where "distinctness" is
determined via a projection and the default equality comparer for the
projected type.

This method has 2 overloads.

### EquiZip

Returns a projection of tuples, where each tuple contains the N-th element
from each of the argument sequences.

This method has 3 overloads.

### Exactly

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is equals 
to the given integer.

### ExceptBy

Returns the set of elements in the first sequence which aren't in the second
sequence, according to a given key selector.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Exclude

Excludes elements from a sequence starting at a given index

### FallbackIfEmpty

Returns the elements of a sequence and falls back to another if the original
sequence is empty.

### FillForward

Returns a sequence with each null reference or value in the source replaced
with the previous non-null reference or value seen in that sequence.

This method has 3 overloads.

### Fold

Returns the result of applying a function to a sequence of 1 element.

This method has 4 overloads.

### ForEach

Immediately executes the given action on each element in the source sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### FullGroupJoin

Performs a Full Group Join between the and sequences.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Generate

Returns a sequence of values consecutively generated by a generator function

### GenerateByIndex

Returns a sequence of values based on indexes

### GroupAdjacent

Groups the adjacent elements of a sequence according to a specified key
selector function.

This method has 4 overloads.

### Incremental

Computes an incremental value between every adjacent element in a sequence:
{N,N+1}, {N+1,N+2}, .

This method has 2 overloads.

### Index

Returns a sequence of where the key is the zero-based index of the value in
the source sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Interleave

Interleaves the elements of two or more sequences into a single sequence,
skipping sequences as they are consumed.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Lag

Produces a projection of a sequence by evaluating pairs of elements separated
by a negative offset.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Lead

Produces a projection of a sequence by evaluating pairs of elements separated
by a positive offset.

This method has 2 overloads.

### MaxBy

Returns the maximal element of the given sequence, based on the given
projection.

This method has 2 overloads.

### MinBy

Returns the minimal element of the given sequence, based on the given
projection.

This method has 2 overloads.

### NestedLoops

Produces a sequence from an action based on the dynamic generation of N nested
loops who iteration counts are defined by

### OrderBy

Sorts the elements of a sequence in a particular direction (ascending,
descending) according to a key.

This method has 2 overloads.

### OrderedMerge

Merges two ordered sequences into one. Where the elements equal in both
sequences, the element from the first sequence is returned in the resulting
sequence.

This method has 7 overloads.

### Pad

Pads a sequence with default values if it is narrower (shorter in length) than
a given width.

This method has 3 overloads.

### Pairwise

Returns a sequence resulting from applying a function to each element in the
source sequence and its predecessor, with the exception of the first element
which is only returned as the predecessor of the second element

### Permutations

Generates a sequence of lists that represent the permutations of the original
sequence

### Pipe

Executes the given action on each element in the source sequence and yields it

### Prepend

Prepends a single value to a sequence

### PreScan

Performs a pre-scan (exclusive prefix sum) on a sequence of elements

### Random

Returns an infinite sequence of random integers using the standard .NET random
number generator.

This method has 6 overloads.

### RandomDouble

Returns an infinite sequence of random double values between 0.0 and 1.0.

This method has 2 overloads.

### RandomSubset

Returns a sequence of a specified size of random elements from the original
sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Rank

Ranks each item in the sequence in descending ordering using a default
comparer.

This method has 2 overloads.

### RankBy

Ranks each item in the sequence in descending ordering by a specified key
using a default comparer.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Repeat

Repeats the specific sequences times

### RunLengthEncode

Run-length encodes a sequence by converting consecutive instances of the same
element into a `KeyValuePair<T, int>` representing the item and its occurrence
count.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Scan

Peforms a scan (inclusive prefix sum) on a sequence of elements.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Segment

Divides a sequence into multiple sequences by using a segment detector based
on the original sequence.

This method has 3 overloads.

### SingleOrFallback

Returns the single element in the given sequence, or the result of executing a
fallback delegate if the sequence is empty. This method throws an exception if
there is more than one element in the sequence

### SkipUntil

Skips items from the input sequence until the given predicate returns true
when applied to the current source item; that item will be the last skipped

### Slice

Extracts elements from a sequence at a particular zero-based starting index

### SortedMerge

Merges two or more sequences that are in a common order (either ascending or
descending) into a single sequence that preserves that order.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Split

Splits the source sequence by a separator.

This method has 12 overloads.

### Subsets

Returns a sequence of representing all of the subsets of any size that are
part of the original sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### TagFirstLast

Returns a sequence resulting from applying a function to each element in the
source sequence with additional parameters indicating whether the element is
the first and/or last of the sequence

### TakeEvery

Returns every N-th element of a source sequence

### TakeLast

Returns a specified number of contiguous elements from the end of a sequence

### TakeUntil

Returns items from the input sequence until the given predicate returns true
when applied to the current source item; that item will be the last returned

### ThenBy

Performs a subsequent ordering of elements in a sequence in a particular
direction (ascending, descending) according to a key.

This method has 2 overloads.

### ToDataTable

Appends elements in the sequence as rows of a given object with a set of
lambda expressions specifying which members (property or field) of each
element in the sequence will supply the column values.

This method has 4 overloads.

### ToDelimitedString

Creates a delimited string from a sequence of values. The delimiter used
depends on the current culture of the executing thread.

This method has 30 overloads.

### TraverseBreadthFirst

Traverses a tree in a breadth-first fashion, starting at a root node and using
a user-defined function to get the children at each node of the tree.

### TraverseDepthFirst

Traverses a tree in a depth-first fashion, starting at a root node and using a
user-defined function to get the children at each node of the tree.

### ToHashSet

Returns a of the source items using the default equality comparer for the
type. 

This method has 2 overloads.

### PartialSort

Combines `OrderBy` (where element is key) and `Take` in a single operation.

### PartialSortBy

Combines `OrderBy` and `Take` in a single operation.

### Trace

Traces the elements of a source sequence for diagnostics.

This method has 3 overloads.

### Windowed

Processes a sequence into a series of subsequences representing a windowed
subset of the original

### ZipLongest

Returns a projection of tuples, where each tuple contains the N-th element
from each of the argument sequences

### ZipShortest

Returns a projection of tuples, where each tuple contains the N-th element
from each of the argument sequences.

This method has 3 overloads.

